>> Brian Holt: We've kind of been
talking about CSS in a vacuum,
we've been using style tags,
which I told you not to use.
You should not be using style
tags in your normal projects,
just on these tiny little examples.
But somehow you need to connect
your CSS and your HTML together.
And I feel like a lot of times for
people that falls apart, like,
how do I get these two disparate
ideas working together?
So we talked about the head tag in HTML,
right?
Inside of your head tag,
you can definitely put these style tags,
it works just the way that we've
been working with them before.
But the better thing you
can do is put a link tag,
that's what this is right here, link.
You can use link technically for
other things, but 99.99% of the time, and
I don't think actually I'm exaggerating,
I'm pretty sure it's accurate number,
it's gonna be for stylesheets.
So you're gonna say rel="stylesheet',
that's how
you let it know this is a stylesheet,
this should be interpreted as CSS.
And then you give it
an href of where it is.
So if I put ./style.css,
that means wherever my intex.html file is,
it's in the same folder, right?
So look in the same folder, and
look for a file called styles.css.
That's what the ./style.css means.
We'll talk more about paths once
we get to working with the Bash,
but just believe me for now when I say ./,
it means look in the same directory.
Does that make sense to people?
Okay, you can actually just say style.css,
without the ./, but
I put the ./ in there to kinda
get you thinking about that cuz
you're gonna see a lot more, and for
other things that ./ is required.
So if that's new to you, just get used
to seeing ./ meaning in the same folder,
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
>> Brian Holt: Our my-brand,
right here I have a my-brand.
And I'll write in my style.css file,
which is a totally different
file from my index.html file,
I'll write this CSS rule, and
it will affect this h1 right here, right?
So if we follow how those things get
connected, they're are two separate files.
But because of this HTML, this index
file will be the first one loaded,
the browser will say, you have a link tag,
I'm gonna go out and download this other
file and bring that in, and
then I am going to apply for all CSS here.
In fact, what really happens if you
browser reaches this, it stops,
it stops doing everything and
it waits for that to download.
So you wanna be careful because that will
slow down your site because obviously it's
waiting for that stylesheet to load.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
any questions about that?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, what is
the difference between link and href?
>> Brian Holt: Between link and
href?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: So this is a link tag,
right, it's a specific kind of HTML tag.
And this is the href attribute, right?
So it's describing something
about link and it's telling you
where the stylesheet is located.
>> Brian Holt: Do you follow,
does that make sense?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
good question.
>> Brian Holt: Cool,
>> Brian Holt: When to actually use
the cascade?
So I spent this time kind of telling
you and drilling into your head,
don't use the cascade,
except sometimes when you use the cascade.
[LAUGH] Now, imagine I have a website
with these nice looking buttons, right?
I have a Default Button, a Warn Button,
and a Success Button, and
they're all on my web page.
I don't really wanna actually rewrite
the styles for this three separate times.
It'd be really nice if I could
just reuse most of the styles
that are the same, right?
Because it's the same border,
it's the same font, it's the font-weight,
it's the same font-size.
And later, if I wanna go in, it's like,
you know what, I don't really like that
this is bold, I'm just gonna get
rid of that particular part of it.
It'd be nice if it changed
all of them at once
rather than having to change
it three different times.
As programmers in general, we're generally
striving to not repeat ourselves.
DRY, do not repeat yourself.
>> Brian Holt: So,
>> Brian Holt: This is a occasion where
you wanna lightly, very,
very lightly, use the cascade.
So I have these three buttons.
I have the ex, just stands for example cuz
I was uncreative at the time, and btn is
a very common abbreviation you'll see for
button, when people put them in classes.
So I have one here that's
the Default Button,
and then I have one that's a Warn Button,
like, hey,
you're about to do something that
you're gonna regret or whatever.
And then I have one here for Success,
like you successfully have done something,
right?
So what I do here is I
have the Default Button.
I write all of the styles that I need for
the Default Button, and
then I will do just the bare
minimum that has to change for
the Warn Button and for
the Success Button.
So I change the color cuz this is black,
I change the background color, and
I change the border color,
and nothing else.
Everything else should go inside
of the Default Button, right?
So this is an occasion where you're
technically using the cascade because
these come lower on the page, right?
So that's how it wins.
Now, notice I'm not going crazy with these
selectors, I'm not throwing a bunch of
unnecessary stuff inside of the cascading
tags, this is very, very minimalistic.
The other thing that I will suggest that
you do if you are using the cascade,
make sure they all live in the same
file next to each other so
that you can read everything just
by scrolling through one file.
I will see a lot of times people will
have them across multiple files.
That's bad because
whenever something breaks,
you now have to look
across multiple files.
That's not a good thing.
>> Brian Holt: Questions about that,
please.
>> Speaker 3: So
is this an example where a comment saying,
hey, it gets thee properties
from this class would be useful?
>> Brian Holt: I
like what you're thinking about,
I think that's a good train of thought.
I think the way I would do
it is maybe here inside
of ex-btn.warn I would put
something like this, and
it would say, inherits from ex-btn or
something like that so
people know it's like, hey,
this is actually meant to always
go with ex-btn.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: Is that good practice?
Is that how it would typically be done?
>> Brian Holt: I don't know if I'm gonna
say typically.
I don't know if there's necessarily
any common practice around this.
Every company that I've worked for,
including Netflix,
including LinkedIn, my fault,
myself included as a party at fault,
all the CSS has always been a hot mess.
Just because over time, with like two
dozen engineers working on the same thing,
things just get out of control.
Cuz people are going fast and
they're iterating quickly, and
that's just really common to happen.
So anything that you can
do to keep things clean and
easy to digest and manage,
really, really, really helps.
So things like that would be helpful.
>> Brian Holt: Right now we're talking
about writing raw CSS, and there's lots
of companies that still write raw CSS.
But there are higher level languages that
you can write, like Sass and Less, and
there's these other technologies
that are very CSS-looking,
that have additional features,
that you can actually group all of these
things together, and
then it compiles out to CSS.
And so a lot of times, you'll rely on
tools like that to kind of help you to
stay a little bit more honest
>> Brian Holt: It makes it hopefully
a little bit more readable.
Often the case is it makes
it even less readable.
So with great power comes great
responsibility and everyone's like,
no we'll just take the great power and
shirk the responsibility so.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
But I think this would
be a useful pattern.
If I walked into code base and
I saw comments like that,
I would be very pleased.
>> Brian Holt: Cuz it's like it's
thoughtful.
>> Brian Holt: Cuz if I see this one here
in a vacuum, just the ex-btn-warn,
I don't know anything else about it right?
Assuming that I can't
see the ex-btn above it.
So if I saw something right away says,
this inherits from this, it's like, cool,
I can immediately go look at that.
>> Brian Holt: Kind of closes that
loop for me.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, other questions?
>> Brian Holt: I've kind of
just been hinting at this quite a bit so
far like I keep opening my devtools.
But I want to formally introduce
you to your devtools really quick.
So I have a decent amount of familiarity
with both Chrome's and Firefox's.
They both have really
different strengths and so
I actually end up using both
of them with some frequency.
There's plenty of people,
there's plenty that just use Chrome.
But Firefox has some
really good stuff too.
They've really made some leaps and bounds.
So the easiest way to open it,
the easiest way to remember it,
is just right-click on something and
say, inspect element.
This will not show up in Safari unless
you turn on the developer tools, just so
you know.
So I say, Inspect Element, and
notice that it takes me directly to that
button that I right-clicked on, right?
So if you want to just wonder
what's going on with this element,
I don't understand why the CSS
is doing what it's doing.
Just right click and inspect element.
Takes me to here and notice that it tells
me right here, it's getting the green
color from this x button success, and
it's also inheriting from this one.
So, the top one will be the most
specific one that it's inheriting from.
The next one underneath that will
be next most specific one, and
notice that all these things
here are crossed out.
It means like hey it actually does,
it's getting a background color of
gray if that's what that color is.
But it's not coming through because
something above it is more specific.
Now you can say that well,
I wonder what happens if
the background color wasn't set.
And so you can click that and then it
will show us like if this wasn't set,
this is what it would look like.
And you can kind of toggle that on and
off to see what that looks like.
It's pretty powerful.
And I can even go as far to say, well, you
know, I wonder if the color was orange.
Okay, that's what it would look like or
I wonder if
the background color was crimson?
>> Brian Holt: And
you can kind of just tool around with
things and kind of like experiment and
like rapidly iterate,
I do this literally all the time, right?
So when I'm writing CSS,
I usually don't go straight to my editor,
I go straight to my browser I kind
of figure out what I want it to do,
just by messing around with it like this,
and then I just
copy everything that worked,
and paste it into my editor.
And that's a really good
way just to go fast.
>> Brian Holt: You can,
>> Brian Holt: Write additional rules, so
I could say,
>> Brian Holt: What
happens if this is on hover, oops, :hover.
And I want the background color
to be cyan whenever I hover
over it.
>> Brian Holt: And
then I have to unset these as well.
So now whenever I hover over it it's cyan,
right?
So you can actually just like to
write these things right directly in
the dev tools.
I can go as far as,
now I can go to computed and
I can go and see, this is 128 by 25 pixels
with 4 padding on top and bottom and
15 padding on left and right.
I can see that it has two pixel border
top, two pixel border left, bottom, and
right.
And it has no margins.
I was like, you know what?
I wonder what this looks like if I just
change this to be 25 pixels margin
right there and
just directly modify there as
well.
>> Brian Holt: If you really
wanna get into the weeds
of why something is,
you can come in here to the computed and
you just scroll down and
you can see everything that it has,
including all the defaults.
So I can see here,
>> Brian Holt: Text align
some of the stuff down here.
And you can see this is
coming from forms.css, and
this is coming from in line and
a bunch of stuff like that.
Yeah, that's layout.
If you're using CSS grid,
it has some useful stuff here.
The box model properties
are all right here.
Animations, we're not doing any
animations at all in this course,
but It has really useful tools for
like, visualizing how animations are
happening and timelines for animations.
Stuff that was really difficult to do
before, that makes it a lot easier.
You can see,
it's just using the system font but
you can see where those are coming from.
What else?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
admin class so that is really useful
stuff all to be used from the Firefox,
devtools but everything I showed
you is like 80% the same in Chrome.
So questions about that?
>> Brian Holt: The easy way to open and
close these is Alt+Cmd+I.
And I don't know what it is in Windows.
>> Speaker 4: Ctrl+Shift+I.
>> Brian Holt: I'm going Ctrl+Shift+I.
Cool.
I think that opens it in most browsers.
And as you hit F12.
>> Speaker 5: What
would you say the strengths are, comparing
Firefox and Chrome devtools, like in
what cases would you use one or the other?
>> Brian Holt: They've converged a lot.
There was a lot of stuff that Chrome used
to be able to do that Firefox couldn't,
and Firefox has greatly caught up.
The reason being is they totally
reworked everything in Firefox.
Now the Firefox devtools are built in
React, which I think is pretty cool.
And so
they're able to iterate really quickly.
The grid inspector for Firefox is
really cool, if you're using CSS grid.
If you're doing performance profiling
of your JavaScript applications,
you still can't really beat Chrome.
Chrome is a lot better at doing
profiling for that kind of stuff.
Like if you're looking, well I mean,
they both do memory leak kind of stuff.
I guess this does have performance
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
I haven't actually too
much tooled with that.
This one has this new style editor thing
that you can actually see
everything that's coming in as CSS.
So for all the code highlighting
stuff here, you can see
here I have this codemirror.css, it
actually gives me the whole CSS document,
and I can edit the CSS
directly in my devtools here.
And I can actually save,
and it will save back, so
I didn't even have to go open my editor.
You can pretty much use your
browser as your editor.
Chrome does the same thing, too, so,
>> Brian Holt: Really,
really cool stuff.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
right there, thanks, CodeMirror.
U is important for library stuff.
The problem is if I ever had to override
the library, which occasionally happens,
I I have to do really crazy stuff if I
wanna override important things that
you're not proud of, things you
have to take a shower afterwards.
>> Brian Holt: Honestly,
they're both fantastic browsers, and
just use the one that you're comfortable
with.
>> Brian Holt: If I
go back to the inspector,
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
you can also dock to the side.
That's a useful thing to know.
>> Brian Holt: This one's useful as well.
Let's see, let's dock to the side.
So I can actually look at this
website as if it was being loaded in,
let's say, an iPhone 6s.
So it makes it the correct height and
width.
It will actually send headers to
the servers like, hey, I'm an iPhone.
Send me the iPhone version.
And so it kinda tricks the server
into sending you the iPhone version.
So you can actually debug what
your phone stuff will look
like directly in your browser,
really, really useful to do.
Something else you can do is you can say,
hey,
make this act like I'm on a cellphone or
make it slow down my website to the point.
If I say good 2G and
try and refresh this page,
it's gonna take a little
bit to load the page.
Hey, I actually did okay, go team.
I did not write this website for
performance.
But you can see now, it's still loading,
which is crazy.
>> Brian Holt: Make sure you always turn
off throttling,
>> Brian Holt: Or else you're gonna have
a bad time browsing the Internet.
>> Brian Holt: So
you can use this color dropper to, hey,
I wonder what shade of blue that is.
So you can drag it around and see,
that's this hex number or this hex number.
Occasionally useful if you
need to figure out a color.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, good stuff.
>> Brian Holt: Please.
>> Speaker 3: So do you typically,
when you're writing real websites,
do you have rules?
Say, okay, so if this is an iPhone,
we're gonna do this, and
then you have to write certain rules for
the iPhone?
Or is it all supposed to work in every
single format, whether it's web or
mobile or whatever else?
>> Brian Holt: I'll give
you two answers that, as a general rule,
you want to not target specific browsers.
Because whenever you target
specific browsers, things change.
And then the things that you wrote to
target the specific browser no longer
work anymore.
And that creates more work for
me, and in general,
I do not like doing work,
[LAUGH] so I try and minimize that.
The practical answer to that,
so the ideological, the ideal
answer to that would be, everything
should work perfectly in every browser.
The practical answer to that is you
should really know who your audience is.
You should figure out, looking at
Google Analytics or something like that.
This website is being browsed by 95%
people that are using Windows 10 Edge.
I'm gonna spend a whole lot more
time debugging in Windows 10 Edge.
Iif only 0.001% of them
are using Samsung Internet,
probably will never look
at Samsung Internet.
So know your user base,
respond to your user base.
Also recognize that you might
have 95% in Windows Edge,
because that's the only one that works.
[LAUGH] And so, people are coming
on Firefox, like this is ugly and
then bounce out.
So you have to kind of question
your assumptions as well.
But the example I always give is if
you're making a website that you can hail
helicopters in Brooklyn, you need to work
on high end iPhones and that's about it.
You're probably not gonna have too many
people hailing it on Windows XP, for
example.
So, you kind of have to
figure out where you are.
>> Brian Holt: But idealistically,
you're gonna base things
on the width of the page.
That's generally the thing,
you use these things called media queries.
If this is less than 200 pixels wide,
apply this style.
This is less than 500 pixels wide,
If this is less than 800 pixels wide,
then apply these styles and
see how these break points, that when
it gets this big, then it changes.
When it gets this big, it changes again.
You're just usually messing with widths,
font sizes, paddings,
margins, those sorts of things.
Good question, yeah.
>> Speaker 5: So you said with font size,
when you specify a pixel, it's not
actually a pixel, but is it a pixel
when you're using margins and borders?
>> Brian Holt: Once upon a time,
it actually used to be a physical pixel.
At some point in time, we realized
that a pixel is not a pixel anymore.
That what is a pixel for an iPhone is
far tinier than what is a pixel for
a CRT from the 80s or whatever, right?
So at some point, they decided a pixel
is this readable unit for this monitor.
And so it's some fixed width, that it's
ideally some amount of inches wide,
I don't actually know what it is.
But now it's like an inch, right?
What is an inch?
An inch is an inch, right?
It's kinda the same thing,
a pixel is just a pixel.
There might be a better answer for
that, but I don't actually know.